# CV4Viscosity
Introduction.<br/>
The aim of this project is to develop a more accurate method of calculating the viscosity of oil being used in the determination of the skin friction coefficient over complex geometry. This program uses computer vision, instead of human vision, to monitor the descent of a ball through a tube of oil. The time taken for the ball's descent, once it has reached its terminal velocity, is an indicator of the viscosity of the oil. In this program, a video file is specified by the user for analysis. Computer vision is used to identify a ball falling in oil, and track its trajectory on a spreadsheet, which is read to generate plots of the ball's motion. These plots can be examined by a human, who can provide a time interval for analysis, and the program will compute the mean and best-fit velocities, and their associated uncertainties.<br/>
Installation.<br/>
The code for this can be found on my GitHub, @dnfost. https://github.com/dnfost/CV4Viscosity<br/>
Issues.<br/>
Breakdown.<br/>
If one encounters any issues with this code, report it directly on GitHub, or reach out to me. <br/>
This is one of the more long-winded programs that I've written, so I'm writing a basic description of what each section of code does, to better the understanding of the reader. <br/>
This program begins with some currently miscellaneous comments - feel free to ignore those, they have to do with how I actually wrote the program. Next however, are a series of import statements. Make sure that all necessary packages are installed on your system before attempting to run the program. <br/>
The first thing that this code actually does is prompts the user to input a video path, then press a button and exit from the widget prompt. <br/>
Upon pushing the button, the playVid function takes effect, so long as a valid video path was provided. This function uses the name of the video file from the provided video path and stores it for use in the actual image-tracking part of this program. The video then plays, as a means of checking if the video path provided was valid or not. <br/>
Next, parameters such as the camera frame rate measured in fps, the radius of the object measured in m (in this application we are using a ball, which is spherical), as well as the upper and lower bounds of the object's colour in HSV are prompted for the user to input. Default values are provided, but can be edited in the code, since it is assumed that there will not be much variation of camera specs, ball colour, or ball shape over the course of experimentation. Determining the appropriate bounds for the HSV colour space can be quite tedious, as it would necessitate the running of the entire code. Instead, provided as well is "COLOUR\_DEBUGGER.py", which can streamline the process of determining HSV bounds.
